He began a confused complaint against the wizard who had vanished behind the curtain on the left.
Give not so earnest a mind to these mummeries child.
A golden fortune and a happy life.
He was like unto my father in a way and yet was not my father.
Also there was a stripling page who turned into a maid.
This was so sweet a lady sir and in some manner i do think she died.
But then the picture was gone as quickly as it came.
Sister nell do you hear these marvels.
Take your place and let us see what the crystal can show to you.
Like as not young master though i am an old man.
Forthwith all ran to the opening of the tent to see what might be amiss but master will who peeped out first needed no more than one glance.
He gave way to the others very readily and retreated unperceived by the squire and mistress fitzooth to the rear of the tent.
Cries of a nottingham a nottingham.
Before them fled the stroller and his three sons capless and terrified.
What is the tumult and rioting cried out the squire authoritatively and he blew twice on a silver whistle which hung at his belt.
Nay we refused their request most politely most noble said the little stroller.
And then they became vexed and would have snatched your purse from us.
I could not see my boy injured excellence for but doing his duty as one of cumberland's sons.
So i did push this fellow.
It is enough said george gamewell sharply and he turned upon the crowd.
Shame on you citizens cried he i blush for my fellows of nottingham.
Surely we can submit with good grace.
Also a popular contrivance whereby love making may be suspended but not stopped during the picnic season.
But i wrestled with this fellow and do know that he played unfairly in the second bout.
Spoke the squire losing all patience and it was to you that i gave another purse in consolation.
Come to me men here here he raised his voice still louder.
The strollers took their part in it with hearty zest now that they had some chance of beating off their foes.
Robin and the little tumbler between them tried to force the squire to stand back and very valiantly did these two comport themselves.
The head and chief of the riot the nottingham apprentice with clenched fists threatened montfichet.
The squire helped to thrust them all in and entered swiftly himself.
Now be silent on your lives he began but the captured apprentice set up an instant shout.
Silence you knave cried montfichet.
He felt for and found the wizard's black cloth the squire was quite out of breath.
Thrusting open the proper entrance of the tent robin suddenly rushed forth with his burden with a great shout.
A montfichet a montfichet gamewell to the rescue.
Taking advantage of this the squire's few men redoubled their efforts and encouraged by robin's and the little stroller's cries fought their way to him.
George montfichet will never forget this day.
What is your name lording asked the little stroller presently.
And mine is will stuteley shall we be comrades.
Right willingly for between us we have won the battle answered robin.
I like you will you are the second will that i have met and liked within two days is there a sign in that.
Montfichet called out for robin to give him an arm.
Friends said montfichet faintly to the wrestlers bear us escort so far as the sheriff's house.
It will not be safe for you to stay here now.
Pray follow us with mine and my lord sheriff's men.
Nottingham castle was reached and admittance was demanded.
Master monceux the sheriff of nottingham was mightily put about when told of the rioting.
And henry might return to england at any moment.
Have your will child if the boy also wills it montfichet answered feeling too ill to oppose anything very strongly just then.
He made an effort to hide his condition from them all and robin felt his fingers tighten upon his arm.
Beg me a room of the sheriff child quickly.
But who is this fellow plucking at your sleeve.
He is my esquire excellency returned robin with dignity.
Mistress fitzooth had been carried off by the sheriff's daughter and her maids as soon as they had entered the house so that robin alone had the care of montfichet.
Robin was glad when at length they were left to their own devices.
The wine did certainly bring back the color to the squire's cheeks.
These escapades are not for old gamewell lad his day has come to twilight.
Will you forgive me now.
It will be no disappointment to me.
No thanks i am glad to give you such easy happiness.
You are a worthy leech will presently whispered robin the wine has worked a marvel.
Ay and show you some pretty tricks.
Young fitzooth had been commanded to his mother's chamber so soon as he had come out from his converse with the squire.
There befell an anxious interview mistress fitzooth arguing for and against the squire's project in a breath.
Most of all robin thought of his father what would he counsel.
If for a whim you beggar yourself i cannot stay you.
But take it whilst i live and wear montfichet's shield in the days when my eyes can be rejoiced by so brave a sight for you will ne'er disgrace our scutcheon i warrant me.
The lad had checked him then.
Never that sir he had said.
He was in deep converse with the clerk and entered the hall holding him by the arm.
Now to bed boy.
Tis late and i go myself within a short space.
Dismiss your squire robin and bid me good e e n.
As any in england i would say said gamewell proudly that is in his day.
Yet he will teach you a few tricks when morning is come.
There was no chance to alter his sleeping room to one nearer to gamewell's chamber.
Presently he crossed the floor of his room with decided step.
Will cried he softly and stuteley who had chosen his couch across the door of his young master's chamber sprang up at once in answer.
We will go out together to the bower there is a way down to the court from my window.
Rest and be still until i warn you.
The hours passed wearily by and movement could yet be heard about the hall.
At last all was quiet and black in the courtyard of gamewell.
Will whispered robin opening his door as he spoke are you ready.
They then renewed their journey and under the better light made a safe crossing of the stable roofs.
Robin entered the hut dragging the unwilling esquire after him.
Be not so foolish friend said fitzooth crossly.
They moved thereafter cautiously about the hut groping before and about them to find something to show that warrenton had fulfilled his mission.
They were upon the verge of an open trap in the far corner of the hut and stuteley had tripped over the edge of the reversed flap mouth of this pit.
Fitzooth's hand rested at last upon the top rung of a ladder and slowly the truth came to him.
Robin carefully descended the ladder and found himself soon upon firm rocky ground.
Stuteley was by his side in a flash and then they both began feeling about them to ascertain the shape and character of this vault.
From the blackness behind the light they heard a voice warrenton's.
Save me masters but you startled me rarely.
Cried he waving the lanthorn before him to make sure that these were no ghosts in front of him.
Enquired robin with his suspicions still upon him.
Truly such a horse should be worth much in nottingham fair.
Nay nay lording answered warrenton with a half laugh.
Warrenton spoke thus with significance to show robin that he was not to think geoffrey's claims to the estate would be passed by.
Robin fitzooth saw that his doubts of warrenton had been unfair and he became ashamed of himself for harboring them.
His tones rang pleasantly on warrenton's ears and forthwith a good fellowship was heralded between them.
